KPIs at the product level,
such as revenue, act as North Stars that guide our product decisions.
Product managers, however, also help determine,
create, and launch new features within a product.
Metrics and KPIs are just as important at the feature level as the overall product level.
So when launching a new feature,
it is important to keep in mind the data at a feature level you might want to collect.
While the pirate metrics framework can provide
a holistic view of a product's performance,
it can also be leveraged to examine the success of a new feature.
Good product managers should be able to tell
you the number of users exposed to a new feature,
the number who interacted with the new feature,
and how often users returned and reuse the feature,
plus how much you can make from the new feature.
The same KPIs at the product level applied at
the feature level help us determine if a new feature is successful.
When instrumenting new features,
it is also important to ensure you can distinguish which customers use the feature.
It is important to track which
product customers use a particular feature and which don't.
Often, a feature might have success with one type of user, but not others.
For example, a meditation app introduces a new set of
story-based meditations for teaching children the basics of meditation.
This feature is much more likely to be used by
parents with young children than by non parents.
Though some users who aren't parents,
perhaps babysitters or teachers,
might find the feature useful too.
By tracking which customers use the new feature and which didn't,
we can identify if the feature is used differently among different groups
and we also know who we can talk to in order to get feedback after launch.
Finally, whenever possible, ensure data is
collected to see when and how a user used a new feature.
By collecting when and how a feature is used,
we gather data that helps us understand why a customer is drawn to use a feature.
For example, perhaps a banking app launches
a new feature that lets users check their credit score.
If a majority of users apply for a mortgage after using that feature,
this is a good indication that the feature is being used by
customers to see whether they are likely to qualify for a mortgage.
Such information can then be leveraged by
a product manager to consider new solutions that might serve
the customers need such as a feature on
the mortgage page that shows whether a user is likely to be approved.
This is just one example,
but it serves to illustrate that understanding where a customer uses a feature in
their product journey provides valuable insights
about what the customer wants to accomplish by using the feature.